docs: ADR-008 (#434)
umee-network/umee: docs/architecture/ADR-008-borrow-tracking.md

**State:**

- Add `InterestScalar` and `TotalAdjustedBorrows` to state, and add `Get/Set` functions
- Remove `BorrowAPY`, `LendAPY`, and `uTokenExchangeRate` from state, and remove `Set` functions

**Getters:**

- Modify `Get` functions for `BorrowAPY`, `LendAPY`, and `uTokenExchangeRate` to calculate values in real time.
- Modify `GetBorrow(addr,denom)`, `GetBorrowerBorrows(addr)`, and `GetAllBorrows()` to use `InterestScalar` and `AdjustedBorrow`
- Modify `GetTotalBorrows(denom)` to use `InterestScalar` and `TotalAdjustedBorrows`

**Setters:**

- Modify `SetBorrow(addr,denom)` to use `InterestScalar` and a stored `AdjustedBorrow`, and to additionally update `TotalAdjustedBorrows` based on the difference from the previous value (calls get before set.)

**Genesis:**

- Rename the `Borrow` struct in genesis state to `AdjustedBorrow`, with `Amount` field changing to `sdk.Dec` from `sdk.Int`

**Invariants:**

- Add invariant which checks `TotalAdjustedBorrows` against the sum of all `AdjustedBorrow` returned by `GetAllBorrows()`

### Example Scenarios

The following example scenario should help clarify the meaning of the `AdjustedBorrow` and `InterestScalar`:

> > Assume a fresh system, containing a token denom `ured` which has never been borrowed or accrued interest before.
> >
> > By definition, `TotalAdjustedBorrowed("ured") = 0.0` and `InterestScalar("ured") = 1.0`
> >
> > User `Alice` borrows `1000 ured`. This information is stored in state as `AdjustedBorrow(alice,"ured") = 1000.000`, because adjusted borrow amount is real borrow amount divided by interest scalar. As a result, `TotalAdjustedBorrow("ured") = 1000.000`. Interest scalar is unchanged by borrowing.
> >
> > User `Bob` also borrows `2000 ured`, which is stored as  `AdjustedBorrow(alice,"ured") = 2000.000`. As a result, `TotalAdjustedBorrow("ured") = 3000.000`. Interest scalar is unchanged.
> >
> > Suppose that the interest rate for `ured` borrows works out to be `0.0003% per block`. On the next EndBlock, `InterestScalar("ured") *= 1.000003`. Both `AdjustedBorrow` values and `TotalAdjustedBorrow` are unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Assume a fresh system, containing a token denom `ured` which has never been borrowed or accrued interest before.
>
> By definition, `TotalAdjustedBorrowed("ured") = 0.0` and `InterestScalar("ured") = 1.0`
>
> User `Alice` borrows `1000 ured`. This information is stored in state as `AdjustedBorrow(alice,"ured") = 1000.000`, because adjusted borrow amount is real borrow amount divided by interest scalar. As a result, `TotalAdjustedBorrow("ured") = 1000.000`. Interest scalar is unchanged by borrowing.
>
> User `Bob` also borrows `2000 ured`, which is stored as  `AdjustedBorrow(bob,"ured") = 2000.000`. As a result, `TotalAdjustedBorrow("ured") = 3000.000`. Interest scalar is unchanged.
>
> Suppose that the interest rate for `ured` borrows works out to be `0.0003% per block`. On the next EndBlock, `InterestScalar("ured") *= 1.000003`. Both `AdjustedBorrow` values and `TotalAdjustedBorrow` are unchanged.
```

>

> > Fast forward without any additional borrow or repay activity, to where `InterestScalar("ured") = 1.5`. Due to interest accrued, Alice's real borrowed amount is `1500 ured`, and Bob's is `3000 ured`. Total borrowed acroos the system is thus `4500 ured`. This has been accomplished by changing InterestScalar, so `AdjustedBorrow` and `TotalAdjustedBorrow` values are unchanged.
> >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Fast forward without any additional borrow or repay activity, to where `InterestScalar("ured") = 1.5`. Due to interest accrued, Alice's real borrowed amount is `1500 ured`, and Bob's is `3000 ured`. Total borrowed across the system is thus `4500 ured`. This has been accomplished by changing InterestScalar, so `AdjustedBorrow` and `TotalAdjustedBorrow` values are unchanged.
>
```

> For example, `AdjustedBorrow(alice,"uumee") == 1000.000`, so to get alice's real borrowed amount, `GetBorrow(alice,"uumee") = 1000.000 * 1.5 = 1500uumee`.
>
> Now Alice wished to borrow an additional `500 uumee`, so whe will owe a total of 2000. Her adjusted borrow is increased by the newly borrowed amount divided by InterestScalar: `AdjustedBorrow(alice,"uumee") = 1000.000 + (500 / 1.5) = 1333.333`.
>
> In addition, `TotalAdustedBorrow("uumee") = 3000.000 + (500 / 1.5) = 3333.333` reflects the increase. Note that the total `uumee` borrowed across the system is now `3333.333 * 1.5 = 4500 + 500 = 5000`.

> > 

Author: ```suggestion
>
```

# ADR 008: Borrow Tracking

## Changelog

- Jan 27, 2021: Initial Draft (@toteki)

## Status

Proposed

## Context

One of the more computationally expensive operations in Umee is "iterate over all borrows". It is currently necessary on several occasions:

- When calculating borrow utilization (require's a denomination's total borrowed)
- When accruing interest (dynamic interest requires borrow utilization, and all borrows must be modified)
- When deriving uToken exchange rates (require's a denomination's total borrowed)

> In order to reduce the perofrmance impact of such iteration, `InterestEpoch` was created, so that such calculations only occurred every N blocks (e.g. 100).

Author: ```suggestion
In order to reduce the performance impact of such iteration, `InterestEpoch` was created, so that such calculations only occurred every N blocks (e.g. 100).
```

> In order to reduce the perofrmance impact of such iteration, `InterestEpoch` was created, so that such calculations only occurred every N blocks (e.g. 100).

Author: ```suggestion
In order to reduce the performance impact of such iteration, `InterestEpoch` was created, so that such calculations only occurred every N blocks (e.g. 100).
```

This design proposal seeks to modify how borrows are stored, in order to achieve the same functionality without ever iterating over all borrows. As a result, `InterestEpoch` can also be eliminated, effectively happening every block.

## Decision

> Chain state will now store an `InterestScalar` for each accepted asset denom, which starts at `1.0` and increases every time interest would accrue on borrows of that denom.

Author: ```suggestion
Chain state will now store an `InterestScalar` for each accepted asset denom, which starts at `1.0` and increases multiplicatively every time interest would accrue on borrows of that denom.
```

Instead of directly storing `sdk.Int BorrowedAmount` for each of a user's borrowed denoms, state records their `sdk.Dec AdjustedBorrow`, respecting the following definition:

> > `AdjustedBorrow(denom,user)` * `InterestScalar(denom)` = `BorrowedAmount(denom,user)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `AdjustedBorrow(denom, address)` * `InterestScalar(denom)` = `BorrowedAmount(denom, address)`
```

State will additionally store a value `TotalAdjustedBorrows` for each denom, which tracks the sum of all users' adjusted borrows in the chosen denomination.

> It must increase or decrease every time assets are borrowed or repaid (including bad debt repayment), but it not modified when interest accrues.

Author: ```suggestion
It must increase or decrease every time assets are borrowed or repaid (including bad debt repayment), but is not modified when interest accrues.
```

This change in borrow storage will be opaque to other parts of the leverage module: functions like `GetBorrow`, `GetTotalBorrows`, and `SetBorrow` will use `InterestScalar` internally, such that their inputs and outputs contain the real borrowed amount.

As a result of efficiency gains, the parameter `InterestEpoch` will be removed, with periodic functions taking place every block.

> Additionally, the values `BorrowAPY`, `LendAPY`, and `uTokenExchangeRate` will be removed from state, instead being efficiently calculated when needed.

Reviewer: This is a big win too IMO

## Detailed Design

This decision mainly updates existing features, rather than adding new ones. The following changes are required to update the leverage module:

> **Params:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Params:**

```

- Remove `InterestEpoch`

> **State:**

Reviewer: huh...I wonder why are super linter isn't catching these markdown issues...?
```suggestion
**State:**

```

> - Add `InterestScalar` and `TotalAdjustedBorrows` to state, and add `Get/Set` functions 

Author: ```suggestion
- Add `InterestScalar` and `TotalAdjustedBorrows` to state, and add `Get/Set` functions
```

- Remove `BorrowAPY`, `LendAPY`, and `uTokenExchangeRate` from state, and remove `Set` functions

> **Getters:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Getters:**

```

- Modify `Get` functions for `BorrowAPY`, `LendAPY`, and `uTokenExchangeRate` to calculate values in real time.
- Modify `GetBorrow(addr,denom)`, `GetBorrowerBorrows(addr)`, and `GetAllBorrows()` to use `InterestScalar` and `AdjustedBorrow`
- Modify `GetTotalBorrows(denom)` to use `InterestScalar` and `TotalAdjustedBorrows`

> **Setters:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Setters:**

```

- Modify `SetBorrow(addr,denom)` to use `InterestScalar` and a stored `AdjustedBorrow`, and to additionally update `TotalAdjustedBorrows` based on the difference from the previous value (calls get before set.)

> **Genesis:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Genesis:**

```

> - Rename the `Borrow` struct in genesis state to `AdjustedBorrow`, and have it store the new `sdk.Dec`

Author: ```suggestion
- Rename the `Borrow` struct in genesis state to `AdjustedBorrow`, with `Amount` field changing to `sdk.Dec` from `sdk.Int`
```

> **Invariants:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Invariants:**

```

> - Add invariant which checks `TotalAdjustedBorrows` against the total of all `AdjustedBorrow` returned by `GetAllBorrows()`

Author: ```suggestion
- Add invariant which checks `TotalAdjustedBorrows` against the sum of all `AdjustedBorrow` returned by `GetAllBorrows()`
```

## Consequences

This design change should address our lingering tradeoff between performance and `InterestEpoch`

> ### Positive

Author: ```suggestion
### Positive

```

- Borrow totals and borrow utilization can be calculated in O(1) time instead of O(N) as N is the total number of borrow positions across all users
- Periodic functions can now take place every block instead of every `InterestEpoch` blocks
- Quantities like uToken exchange rates and lend APYs now update instantly to new borrow and lend activity, even between multiple transactions within the same block.

> ### Negative

Author: ```suggestion
### Negative

```
